“Ù∆µ∏≈ ˆ 
In real life, sounds are emitted by objects and heard by listeners. The 
way a sound is perceived depends on a number of factors. A listener can tell 
roughly which direction a sound is coming from and may also get some sense of 
its distance from its loudness and quality. A fast-moving sound source (like a 
falling bomb or a passing police car) will change in pitch as it moves as a 
result of the Doppler Effect. Also, the surroundings will affect the way sound 
is reflected, so a voice inside a cave will have an echo but the same voice in 
the open air will not.

Audio Sources and Listener Audio Sources and Listener To simulate the effects of 
position, Unity requires sounds to originate from Audio Sources attached to 
objects. The sounds emitted are then picked up by an Audio Listener attached to 
another object, most often the main camera . Unity can then simulate the effects 
of a source°Øs distance and position from the listener object and play them to 
the user accordingly. The relative speed of the source and listener objects can 
also be used to simulate the Doppler Effect for added realism.

Unity can°Øt calculate echoes purely from scene geometry but you can simulate 
them by adding Audio Filters to objects. For example, you could apply the Echo 
filter to a sound that is supposed to be coming from inside a cave. In 
situations where objects can move in and out of a place with a strong echo, you 
can add a Reverb Zone to the scene. For example, your game might involve cars 
driving through a tunnel. If you place a reverb zone inside the tunnel then the 
cars°Ø engine sounds will start to echo as they enter and the echo will die down 
as they emerge from the other side.

The Unity Audio Mixer allows you to mix various audio sources, apply effects to 
them, and perform mastering.

The manual pages for Audio Source, Audio Listener, Audio Mixer, the audio 
effects and Reverb Zones give more information about the many options and 
parameters available for getting effects just right.